docs: add EAS Simulator preview documentation (#48225)
expo/expo: docs/pages/preview/eas-simulator/cli-reference.mdx

---
title: EAS Simulator CLI reference
sidebar_title: CLI reference
description: Reference for the experimental EAS CLI commands that create, inspect, control, list, and stop remote simulator sessions.
---

import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { Tab, Tabs } from '~/ui/components/Tabs';

The `simulator:*` commands are experimental and hidden. Use a current [EAS CLI](/eas/cli/) to run them:

> <Terminal cmd={['$ eas simulator:start --help']} />

Reviewer: nit: would `npx eas-cli@latest` better suite the "use a current" recommendation?

Reviewer 2: I know I recommended to `eas` instead of `eas-cli` for consistency, but if the latter is preferable, then let's show all 4 package managers, example: https://docs.expo.dev/more/create-expo/#create-a-new-project

Author: I think we can keep it eas for consistency with other parts of docs and simplicity

The `--help` flag displays the available options for `simulator:start`.

## Commands

| Command                  | Purpose                                                                  |
| ------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `simulator:availability` | Check whether the current project's account can use EAS Simulator        |
| `simulator:start`        | Create a session and wait for its controller configuration               |
| `simulator`              | Alias for `simulator:start`                                              |
| `simulator:exec`         | Run another command with **.env.eas-simulator** loaded                   |
| `simulator:get`          | Get status, connection details, dashboard URL, timestamps, and artifacts |
| `simulator:list`         | List and filter sessions for the current project                         |

> | `simulator:stop`         | Stop a session                                                           |

Reviewer: should these be links?

## `simulator:availability`

> <Terminal cmd={['$ eas simulator:availability --json']} />

Reviewer: does it only run with `--json`? why put `--json` as example?

Author: No, --json is optional. I used it because these docs emphasize agentic workflows and the stable machine-readable result is easier for agents and scripts to inspect. I’ve clarified that omitting it produces human-readable output.

I believe the main consumers of these docs will be rather agents than humans. In 99% of cases I have my agent do `eas simulator xyz`

> | [`simulator:stop`](#simulatorstop)                 | Stop a session                                                           |

Reviewer 3: `simulator:events` might be missing here, but unsure if you want to document it now or as a follow-up

Author: adding it as follow up

Reviewer 3: Sorry, I was slow to review it 😆

Author: haha no worries, I was just trying to land it fast and hand it out to Joe to not block him 😂

| `--platform` | `ios`, `android`                           |
| `--type`     | `agent-device`, `argent`, `serve-sim`      |
| `--status`   | `new`, `in-progress`, `stopped`, `errored` |

Use `--limit` to control page size and `--after` with the previous response's `endCursor` for pagination.

## `simulator:stop`

Stop the session referenced by **.env.eas-simulator**:

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas simulator:stop']} />

Stop a specific session:

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas simulator:stop --id <session-id>']} />

The stop mutation is idempotent.

## **.env.eas-simulator**

The managed file always contains the session ID:

```sh .env.eas-simulator
EAS_SIMULATOR_SESSION_ID="<session-id>"
```

Controller connection variables depend on the selected type:

| Controller   | Connection variables                                             |
| ------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| agent-device | `AGENT_DEVICE_DAEMON_BASE_URL`, `AGENT_DEVICE_DAEMON_AUTH_TOKEN` |
| Argent       | `ARGENT_TOOLS_URL` and, when required, `ARGENT_AUTH_TOKEN`       |

Add the file to **.gitignore**:

```sh .gitignore
.env.eas-simulator

> ```

Reviewer: maaaybe we want to prompt the user to add it to gitignore first time they run a session (if interactive)

Author: good idea

---
title: EAS Simulator CLI reference
sidebar_title: CLI reference
description: Reference for the experimental EAS CLI commands that create, inspect, control, list, and stop remote simulator sessions.
---

import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { Tab, Tabs } from '~/ui/components/Tabs';

> The `simulator:*` commands are experimental and hidden. Run them through a current EAS CLI:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `simulator:*` commands are experimental and hidden. You can use [EAS CLI](/eas/cli/) to run them:
```

Link to EAS CLI is missing.

> <Terminal cmd={['$ npx --yes eas-cli@latest simulator:start --help']} />

Reviewer 2: Let's use 
```suggestion
<Terminal cmd={['$ eas simulator:start --help']} />

The `--help` flag displays a list of available commands:
```

- For EAS CLI, we have started recommending using `eas`
- Context about `help` flag missing

## Commands

| Command                  | Purpose                                                                  |
| ------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `simulator:availability` | Check whether the current project's account can use EAS Simulator        |
| `simulator:start`        | Create a session and wait for its controller configuration               |
| `simulator`              | Alias for `simulator:start`                                              |
| `simulator:exec`         | Run another command with **.env.eas-simulator** loaded                   |
| `simulator:get`          | Get status, connection details, dashboard URL, timestamps, and artifacts |
| `simulator:list`         | List and filter sessions for the current project                         |
| `simulator:stop`         | Stop a session                                                           |

## `simulator:availability`

> <Terminal cmd={['$ npx --yes eas-cli@latest simulator:availability --json']} />

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Terminal cmd={['$ eas simulator:availability --json']} />
```

The JSON output contains `available` and `accountName`. This command does not create a session or consume simulator usage.

## `simulator:start`

> Choose a controller type when starting a session:

Reviewer 2: should explain what a controller type is here?

<Tabs>

> <Tab label="agent-device">

Reviewer 2: One line context and link to agent-device would be great: https://docs.expo.dev/agents/agent-device/

<Terminal
  cmd={[

>     '$ npx --yes eas-cli@latest simulator:start --platform ios --type agent-device --non-interactive',

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    '$ eas simulator:start --platform ios --type agent-device --non-interactive',
```

  ]}
/>

</Tab>

> <Tab label="Argent">

Reviewer 2: Link and context to Argent would be great here: https://docs.expo.dev/agents/argent/

<Terminal
  cmd={[

>     '$ npx --yes eas-cli@latest simulator:start --platform ios --type argent --non-interactive',

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    '$ eas simulator:start --platform ios --type argent --non-interactive',
```

I'd recommend switching all commands in the rest of the docs to use `eas`.

  ]}
/>

</Tab>

</Tabs>

Important flags:

| Flag                | Description                                                                                                                                |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |

> | `-p, --platform`    | `ios` or `android`. Required in non-interactive mode; prompted for in an interactive terminal                                              |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `-p, --platform`    | `androd` or `ios`. Required in non-interactive mode; prompted for in an interactive terminal                                              |
```
